If what you're saying is true, then I
mean this is a revelation.
>> Yeah. And I I couldn't speak about it
until now that it's possible to
communicate with someone that's passed
away. And I'm saying it from the point
of view of being a neuroscientist and a
psychiatrist. And it's taboo because we
are afraid that people will think we're
going insane. I mean, I've been part of
teams that have locked people up and had
them injected with stuff against their
will because of things they were saying
that's not that dissimilar to things
I've experienced. I wanted to find out
as much science as I could to try to
back it up.
>> And do you think you found the answer?
>> Yeah.
>> How sure are you?
>> 100%. And the things I found out are
going to shock you.
>> The floor is yours.
>> Okay. So, I'm Dr. Tara Wart. I'm a
neuroscientist and a medical doctor who
specialized in psychiatry. And I lost my
beloved husband to leukemia almost 4
years ago, 2 days before our fourth
wedding anniversary. And that everything
I believed in had gone wrong.
I was just totally lost and broken. But
then I started getting signs from my
husband. And in my desperation, I did
consult a couple of mediums. But not
being impressed by them, I ended up
thinking if it's possible to communicate
with someone that's passed away. And I
am all about optimizing my brain, then I
should be able to do it myself. So I
went down a rabbit hole. And what I've
uncovered in this research is going to
have a really beneficial effect on a lot
of people.
>> Why? because it means that we are
capable of so much more than what we
think the human mind is capable of.
>> So listen, here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to try and ask the questions
and challenge you in ways that I think
the viewer might challenge you.
>> I want you to ask me those questions.
>> I see messages all the time in the
comments section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because in a strange
way you are you're part of our history
and you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you
Dr. Tara Swart. Good to see you again.
>> You too.
>> Thank you for coming back. You were our
most viewed guest on the show of all
time. Our last conversation did just
over 20 million views and downloads,
which is pretty staggering. But you're
back to talk about something entirely
different this time,
>> which is this idea of science, which
kind of intertwines with all of your
work on neuroscience that you've done
throughout your career. My first
question to you is, what is it that you
think you know that the vast majority of
people don't quite understand,
comprehend, or have accepted yet? and
take me right back to the sort of first
principles of that thinking.
>> I believe that we are capable of so much
more than what we think the human mind
is capable of now. And I believe that
the brain actually filters down the
capability of the mind so that we can
exist on this material plane. And
things that I found out doing research
for the signs is going to shock you. The
abilities that we have that we're not
aware of are way beyond what you might
even imagine right now.
>> In what departments and facets of my
life?
>> Let's just start with something really
simple. How many senses do you think we
have?
>> Five. I can smell. I can touch. Um I can
hear. I can see. Um is it five that?
Yeah, five. Is it five?
>> Have you heard of a six sense?
>> Being able to see ghosts and stuff.
>> Okay. So I think most people would agree
that we have five senses and some people
would say isn't there something like a
six sense and I don't think it's agreed
what that might be. So I actually did a
literature review of several pieces of
research about how many senses humans
have and we actually have 34 as we
currently understand it.
>> 34.
And so what does this mean? Like what is
the because you're making an assertion
here. What is the assertion that you're
making and what does that mean for the
material sort of consequences of my
life?
>> I'm making a hypothesis based on both
the analogy of the observable universe
and the fact that we have this expanded
suite of senses to challenge you to
understand that you are capable of much
more than you think you are. And you
know, you're a really good case in point
for me because you love rationality and
data and science and you don't really
love intuition and the, you know, the
unknown, the unseen. So, you know, I
think if I can convince you of anything
by the end of this podcast, then the
impact that that could have on society,
I think is huge. I mean, the things I
found out are going to shock you.
>> What do you mean by that?
>> I, as you know, was a was a psychiatrist
in the past. So I'm able to diagnose
people and say whether they have a
mental illness or not. In the past four
years,
I've been keeping a secret. And there
were times in that four years that I had
to ask myself if I was in clinical
depression,
if I was psychotic, if I was manic,
if
the way that my consciousness was
expanding. I mean, Steve, I've I've been
part of teams that have locked people up
and put, you know, had them injected
with stuff against their will because of
things they were saying that's not that
dissimilar to things I've experienced in
the last four years.
So, I guess we better get into the
secret because I sat here with you
almost two years ago now and we had a
fantastic conversation, but there was
something you didn't tell my audience
when we had that conversation that re
reached more than 20 million people.
There was something at that moment in
time that you didn't tell me, which was
this secret you've been keeping.
What is the secret, Tara? Um, I lost my
beloved husband to leukemia almost four
years ago
and I've written this book which
mentions my personal story. So,
and I trust you. So, I really wanted to
come back on the podcast and just
explain a little bit to people about
what's been going on for me for the last
four years. So your husband Robin, you
met him 2016
and he passed he passed away from
leukemia in
>> 2021.
>> 2021. Now from 2021 when he passed away,
what what happened in your life? What
was going on in your world? If I was a
fly on the wall in your context, what
would I have seen?
>> He'd been given two weeks to live, but
he actually lived for three and a half
weeks.
and he died two days before our fourth
wedding anniversary. So, I was literally
reading condolence cards on my fourth
wedding anniversary.
If it wasn't for the people that I have
around me who became like a fortress, I
don't think I would be here today. You
know, never having had that experience
before, it was just so so devastating.
Um, and even though I'm a neuroscientist
and a psychiatrist, I just
I just was like like totally lost and
broken.
And then
I started seeing robins in the garden
every single time I went to the window,
both in Hampshire and London. I've never
ever seen so many robins in my life.
Like not before or since. I still see
them sometimes. But I noticed it. I
thought, of course, that's what I want
to see. I have no idea what it means, if
anything. Um,
and then about 6 weeks after he passed
away,
I was asleep and I heard a noise in the
distance and we had been burgled once,
so I went to check it wasn't the alarm
in the garages. Couldn't work out what
it was. Thought maybe it was birds in
the distance. Went back to sleep. It was
about 4:00 a.m. and then I got woken up
by a massive thump to my shoulder. I
wouldn't demonstrate it on you because
it would be too much for me to hit you
that hard. It wasn't like a tap. So, I
opened my eyes and I could see next to
my bed
a very vague hazy version of Robin as if
he was pushing himself through trial to
be seen.
And I was just transfixed. And I saw him
become more and more clear. I could see
the outline of his hair and his face.
And then suddenly he just dissolved from
the top down. And my eyes went like
this. And I remember seeing his shins
and his feet. And I was like up on my
elbow watching. And I I just gasped out
loud.
In my desperation, I did consult a
couple of mediums.
And again, I had that dual conversation.
I said to myself, this is the kind of
thing that crazy, desperate people do.
And within the same breath, it's okay
for me to be crazy and desperate right
now. I've lost my best friend, my life
partner. Like my everything I thought
about how the world worked has crashed
around me. And I ended up think, you
know, being not being impressed by the
mediums. and just at some point, I can't
even remember when now thinking if it's
possible to communicate with someone
that's passed away
and he was my husband and my best friend
and I am all about optimizing my brain
and expanding my consciousness, then I
should be able to do it myself. That's
that's the start of my journey that I've
written about in science.
>> And do you think you found the answer?
>> Yeah.
>> How sure are you?
>> 100%.
I mean, if if if what you're saying is
true, then
that's a pretty I mean, that's a
revelation, right? So many people have
lost lost people or um have gone through
different types of loss in their life.
And you're telling me that through the
work you've done over the last couple of
years and the research you've done, you
understand how to communicate with them
in some capacity.
>> Mhm.
>> And you're 100% sure.
>> 100%.
>> So, listen. Here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to I'm going to I'm going to
I'm going to challenge you in ways that
I think um the viewer might challenge
you sat at home. So I'm going to try and
ask the questions that the viewer might
ask because there's you know people
>> the this idea is quite a significant
perspective shifting one. So my job in
this conversation although these are
sensitive matter matters of course is
just to try and play devil's advocate
where I can
>> and I just I want to say that you know
you know me
>> and you know that you've asked me to
come back on the podcast several times
and I've come when I'm ready so I want
you to ask me those questions.
>> Yeah. So where does this journey begin
then? So this you suffer this tragic
loss in your life. You go to the mediums
you're let down by them. Where does this
begin? Where does your research your
your journey of discovery begin?
It starts with this decision to um you
know try to
communicate with him myself. There's a
realization at some point that it's not
a one-way thing that when people pass
away they also have to learn. So it's
it's it's like two people having to
learn a language to speak to each other.
Like two people who speak a different
language having to learn a language that
they can both speak. That's that's how
it felt. Obviously, as a scientist, I
then wanted to find out as much science
as I could to to try to back it up,
which really comes down to the science
of whether the mind or the psyche or the
soul can exist separately from the body.
>> And I will say that way before I even
started thinking about this stuff, just
the the moment that he died, which he
died in front of me, once he'd actually
passed away, I remember a really strong
feeling of looking at his body and just
knowing that wasn't him.
and the the essence of who he was. I
didn't know where it was, but it was not
there lying in that bed.
>> And when did you realize that you were
going to start to collect research and
do research on this idea of being able
to communicate in ways that most people
don't realize we can communicate through
science. And also when you talk about
being able to communicate through these
30 plus senses, is that just with the
dead or is that with each other? like
can I communicate through you know is
there other ways that I can tap into
these senses that you've discovered
through your research
that will help me be more effective with
the living too.
>> I mean I think it starts with yourself.
So I think that the fact that if you're
not even aware that you've got 34 senses
then you're obviously not consciously
tapping into
something that you're not aware of and
and some of them are non-concious senses
anyway. Um things like the pH of your
blood or like the balance of oxygen and
carbon dioxide in your blood. you're,
you know, you're not going to be
conscious of those. You can't
necessarily exert much control over
them. Although, obviously, if you slow
down your breathing or you do a certain
type of breath work, it it could have an
impact on those things. The conclusion
that I came to, so like I said, I went
to the brink a few times. I went to the
brink.
Let me give you the first example. I
realized that the first anniversary was
coming up on October 26th.
And around, you know, a couple of months
before that, I was doing the best that I
had been doing. so far. But I was very
aware this anniversary was coming and I
wanted to prepare myself mentally.
But from the 4th of October,
I suddenly like was in aches and pains
all over my body, which actually lasted
for six or seven weeks and was
accompanied by me feeling so depressed
that I actually had to look in the
mirror and like go through the criteria
for clinical depression and work out if
I was actually depressed or not. Um, and
I didn't meet all the criteria, but I
was in this physical pain. I could not
understand why. I went for a massage. It
was so painful. I didn't go again for a
year. So, eventually I looked through my
um diary on calendar on my phone. And I
looked back to October 4th, which was
the day that it started, and that was
the day that I had taken him home to
die. That was the day I took him home
from hospital. I didn't remember that
date, but clearly my body had and the
trauma was just reemerging as like
physical pain. Um, and I only realized
quite a lot later that I had to to do
some sematic work to actually get rid of
the last bits of trauma that um, talking
therapy can't actually get to
>> seatic work.
>> So, body body work, whether that's
massage or uh, dance or art or
craniosacral therapy or taichi, you
know, like anything physical. because
basically there's an area in the brain,
it's actually inside. So I can't really
show it to you on this, but it's kind of
inside there. And that part of the brain
is to do with articulating speech and it
basically gets shut down by trauma. So
those sort of phrases like I'm
speechless or I'm dumbfounded or I have
no words indicates the fact that there
may be residual trauma that's held in
your body that you can't actually
articulate and get out and solve through
talking therapy. So, it requires some
kind of physical therapy. So, that was
obviously to do with my um sense of
pain. And it took me a little while to
kind of put together what that might
mean by really like tapping into why was
my body um manifesting pain to to sort
of remind me of something or show me
something. But also in the first couple
of weeks after um Robin's body Robin's
body was taken away the morning after he
died and it was uh just under two weeks
till the cremation. In that time I would
wake up in the morning and I would be
absolutely freezing cold like shaking
and shivering. And it was October. It
wasn't like mid- winter. And I would
blast up the heating. When someone else
was in the house I would realize it it
was like a sauna. It was actually a bit
embarrassing and had to like you know
turn it down and like open some windows
and Robin actually hated being cold and
he would have been in the morg in a
refrigerated drawer that whole time and
again I think it was my sense of
temperature that was kind of on the same
wavelength as where I didn't consciously
think of where he was but I was feeling
freezing cold. So it was looking back it
was things like that that were
coincidences absolutely but then over
time and I'm talking a couple of years I
could ask for specific signs and get
them sometimes at first it would take a
while and then it became like it would
happen that day I could ask a question
in my head and get an answer. I
mentioned having you know sort of again
being at the brink of my sanity having
to question things. I was experiencing
something called thought insertion which
um in psychiatry is one of the symptoms
of schizophrenia. It's when you have a
thought in your head that you know isn't
yours. So I was experiencing that really
vividly.
But can you imagine experiencing that
and at the same time being a
psychiatrist that is is saying right
Tara you do realize you are having like
a psychotic symptom. And so in my
research, one of the things I realized
that maybe, you know, if you're going
through grief and you don't know the
things that I know, you can't articulate
to yourself that grief in many ways is
like psychosis.
It's changing the levels of
neurotransmitters in your head. It's
changing the electric electric and
chemical like signaling in your head. I
just have so much empathy for people
that that have to go through that and
don't have the wherewithal or the
resources that that I did. Do you think
one needs to cultivate their ability to
see signs? Do you think it's like going
to the gym?
>> Totally. Totally. I It took me years.
Um, and like I said, I believe it took
him years as well. Um,
so yeah, I I say it's like learning a
language, but you're right. It's like
going to the gym.
>> And what does one need to do in that gym
to grow their
sign muscle?
>> Well, it always starts with believing,
right?
>> Yeah. Um,
>> do you think that's what one of the big
issues in terms of being able to access
these other dimensions or dynamics is
most people just don't believe in it?
>> So, I wouldn't I'm not even sure if I'd
say most people. I'd say a lot of people
don't believe in it.
>> Or they secretly do, but they're scared
to talk about it cuz they think people
ridicule them.
>> Yeah. Cuz I don't know. My my brain my
brain feels like I need to have the
scientific evidence of things for me to
accept them because I think sometimes I
worry that if I don't have scientific
rigor around my beliefs then I would I'm
susceptible to believe anything and I'll
believe the spaghetti monster at the
bottom of the garden and I'll believe
you know every religion in the world and
every
>> and everything and then I'm unanchored
and then I blow around like a plastic
bag in the wind and then I have no
orientation. Yeah.
>> So I think okay rigger is
>> the basis of my beliefs. I have to have
some sort of scientific evidence.
>> I know you do.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> it's not to say I'm not open-minded
because I've had my mind changed so many
times in my life that one would be dumb
now to not be open-minded and to not
listen.
>> I agree with you about rigger. I
completely agree with that. My entire
career has been based on that. But I
just, you know, I was pushed up against
a wall. So, I had to think differently.
And I think the question I pose to
myself is is what if
>> you had to think differently.
>> So um the psychologist Carl Jung talks
about um when he talks about the
collective unconscious he talks about
those basically three main things that
all humans experience which is birth,
life and death. And so we have this
common experience which is actually part
of our inherited gene and brain
structure. Um so everyone who's ever
lived will experience those things. But
if we look at ancient wisdom, for a
start, we are made of the carbon and
hydrogen and oxygen and nitrogen that
came from the big bang. So we're all
made of the same thing. Our ancestors
lived in the cycle with nature. I think
us actually having broken our connection
to nature is a huge part of why we're so
disconnected and unhappy. So if you
think of the life cycle of a salmon for
example, it you know it goes through its
life cycle and eventually its bones
contribute to the phosphorus on the um
floor of the forest. So it never really
goes away. Um in many other ways our
ancestors repeatedly saw the cycles of
nature and therefore always kind of knew
that everything gets renewed and nothing
ever completely goes away. And I think
that's a really important thing to
return to. I think, you know, when we
question things, which you're absolutely
right to do, I think we have to look at
things that we didn't think were true
that we now know are true as just ways
of being open to the fact that things in
the future might become obvious or known
that aren't known now. I think that is
an important place of being open-minded
to to sit at. And so for example,
um, want to hear about slime mold?
>> You tell me if that's something I want
to hear about.
>> So slime mold are single cellled
organisms like amoeba
who go about their daily life on their
own very happily as long as their basic
needs are met. But if for example
they're facing potential starvation,
they will come together and form a slug
because the slug can move towards your
vegetable patch, you know, a new food
source and they can survive.
Equally, if they are if they are facing
potential um extinction,
they will come together and form a a
sporing body like a mushroom. So that's
got a stalk and a fruing body that can
release fours that will go into the
atmosphere to all different places where
these new baby organisms can can grow
and thrive. But if you think about it,
the single cells in the stalk are
sacrificing themselves for the greater
good because there's no chance that
they're they're going to get released
into the atmosphere as a spore because
they're in the stalk. So some of them
actually cheat and climb up the stalk to
get into the fruing body and displace
other cells from the fruitting body.
So things like that and for example the
microisal network which is how mushrooms
and mcelium
feed the roots of trees. Even trees that
have been felled can be kept alive for
centuries because the microisal network
which is the connection between mycelium
and tree roots can bring water and sugar
to that tree stump to keep it alive. And
trees and mcelium don't even only do it
for the same species. They do it because
they're part of the entire forest and
it's symbiotic relationship and they
care about each other. Things like this
would have been like thought to be
fantastical 10 years ago. Um, you know,
we're in in LA at the moment and I saw
the driverless car for the first time.
Now, when I was growing up watching
sci-fi,
I never thought I'd see that in my life.
So that's all I'm saying that and and
I'm saying it from the point of view of
being a cognitive scientist and I'm
talking about the nature of
consciousness. I'm not talking about
other not asking you to believe you know
other parts of science but based on the
fact that we don't know everything.
We've learned loads of things that we
thought weren't true before.
I strongly believe there's a benefit to
humanity of raising this kind of
question and having this conversation
which I ask you why it's a taboo
conversation. What you know why
shouldn't we be enlightened? Why
shouldn't we feel better? Why shouldn't
we be more connected? Whatever we've
been doing up until now certainly hasn't
been working.
>> When when was it that you made the
decision that you were going to write a
book about this called the signs? Was
there a particular moment in this
process where you realized that you were
going to dig deeper and that then you
were ultimately going to share this with
the world?
>> I wasn't intending to write a book at
all, but I'd got to the point where I
had something that I could share with
people that I actually thought would be
useful.
>> And at this point, you're communicating
with Robin
>> on a daily basis.
>> On a daily basis.
>> Give me some color to that. What does
that mean? Give me some examples if you
can. Well, either will be that like I'll
ask a question in my mind and the answer
will come in my mind but I know it's not
my own thought or I'll just get a direct
like message from him in my mind that I
know isn't me but mostly it's the signs.
So I've talked to you about the first
anniversary and how hard that was. By
the time of the second anniversary,
um,
I was actually in America
and I'd been filming in studio for a
week and then I was on the road on the
Navajo Nation and that was due to I was
due to fly out of the Navajo Nation on
the second anniversary of Robin's
passing.
And on by that point I was feeling a bit
like I'd completely burnt out
and I had a choice about how to
reemerge. Um you know whether that was
going to be in a good way or I wasn't
going to be able to make it. Um and I
had this analogy of a phoenix rising
from the flames in my mind.
So on that trip I said
darling send me the sign of a phoenix.
>> You said that to who? to Robin in my
head. And I I chose the Phoenix because
it's really unusual. So, it's not like
if I said, you know, a dog, I'm probably
going to see a dog on the pavement every
day, but I chose something that is not
an easy thing to see. And I was actually
in Oklahoma City where, you know, you
wouldn't expect necessarily to see like
something unusual. Every single day
between my hotel and the studio, I went
through Chinatown and I passed a
restaurant called the Phoenix Garden
with a big emlazed like you know sign.
And on the way there I had had an
indirect flight from Boston and the
flight leaving Boston was late. So I
missed my connection in Chicago and I
had to spend a night in Chicago and then
I was, you know, late for filming and
stuff. And so when I was leaving to go
to LA, I was leaving on a on a
Sunday and from the Monday onwards I had
a podcast every single weekday in LA.
And so the team said to me, "We know
that you cannot miss that flight. We are
not going to put you on on an indirect
flight. We absolutely promise you direct
flight to LA. So you're fine from Monday
onwards." We were in the middle of
nowhere for like a week and basically my
flight wasn't booked because we didn't
know which airport we were going to be
at. We arrived on the eve of the
anniversary of Robin passing and my
flight was booked that day and it was
from Flagstaff in the Navajo Nation to
LA flying on the day of his anniversary.
No direct flights. I had to fly through
Phoenix, Arizona on the day of his
anniversary.
You probably heard of that old analogy
of when you buy a car, you end up seeing
the car everywhere on the road. Like I
buy buy a new car and then I go
everywhere and it seems like everybody's
got my car because of do they call it
confirmation bias in science in
psychology where once you've got
something in your head you're more
likely to see that thing. I think
they've done studies on this where if
you are exposed to something or you're
told to think about something then
you'll see it more in the world. How do
you separate what you're saying from
that proven psychological phenomenon?
I don't I say use it to your advantage.
>> But how do you know that wasn't what was
happening in your life? Because if you
thought about the word Phoenix and then
over the course of a couple of days,
you're looking at everything, but you're
only going to register the things that
are emotionally reg resonant.
>> You know, I might have seen Phoenix a
lot of time over the last seven days,
but it means nothing to you.
>> Yeah. I didn't I didn't register it.
Again, I would say the number of times
this has happened, the the sort of like
how narrow I make the criteria. So, you
know, sometimes I say, I need to see a
button or a symbol of a button or the
word button, but it's got to have happen
three times by 11 p.m. tomorrow. Um, and
one of my friends says that, you know,
we share something which is if you see a
pair of lions. Um, and we send each
other pictures of it. But she says it
has to be if you went out of your way
and you walked a different way and then
you saw them. If it's like, you know,
the normal way that you go or somewhere
that you know that they exist, that
doesn't count. It has to be if you went
out of your way. So, I had a previous um
thing with Robin which was about the
figure of eight or the infinity symbol.
Um, and there's a story in the book of
how that was cropping up for me when I
actually met him. But there was a day
recently where I had some spaced out I
had three spaced out meetings in the
day. So I thought I'll take the
opportunity to walk for an hour between
them all.
>> And for the last meeting of the day,
I ended up walking past um UC, which is
University College Hospital, where he
was having treatment. And that had been
a really traumatic time for me when he
was in hospital there. And I have I will
have to say I kind of avoided that area
since then. I'll tell you about a
particular story that was like really
traumatizing for me. Um so on this walk
to um where I was going for the evening
for a book launch event, I ended up
walking past the hospital and and I
actually said in my head like why would
you make that happen to me? Like why why
do I have to walk past that building? I
never want to see that building again in
my life. And again, I said, "You have to
send me a sign."
And um by the time I got to Houston
station, so you know, you can people who
don't know can Google this. It's not
very far. There was an elastic band in
the figure of H signing on the pavement.
And that means something to me. Um,
so the thing about this this
confirmation bias thing is it it's
dependent on the reticular activating
system which is the system of your brain
that filters out what's not crucial to
your survival and filters in what it
wants you to notice.
And so
actually one of the things I've written
about in the book is the art of noticing
because really we live in this world
where the light you know life is passing
you by at 100 miles per hour. You're not
noticing things that could actually be
crucial to you thriving rather than you
just surviving.
And in this model called shared trait
vulnerability which falls under the
field of um research called
neurosthetics.
So basically creativity is a positive
personality trait, right?
>> But there is a a high correlation
between creativity and psychopathology
which is mental illness particularly
depression, schizophrenia and
alcoholism.
And there are quite a few high-profile
examples of um creative people who had
mental illnesses like Alexander McQueen,
Kurt Cabain, Van Go. So what that shows
is that there's an area of overlap of
three particular ways of thinking that
are underpinned by neurology
that are the reasons that people with
mental illness are so creative and they
are basically
um hyperconivity.
So that's that's two things. That's
joining the dots in the material world
of things that aren't obvious to other
people, but it's also hyperconivity
inside the brain. So, if you think about
all these loes,
so heavy. If you think about all these
loes, the more lobes that are firing at
the same time, and there's also a cortex
that's known as the association cortex.
So, that one, you know, these loes can
be firing, but they're not necessarily
connecting up with each other. The more
interconnected all this firing is in the
brain, the more the brain opens up to
new ideas and so that underpins
creativity. And also this usually really
involves the visual cortex which is in
the occipital loes and that's why
sometimes people whether it's through
psychedelics or you know sort of sort of
altered states of consciousness through
creativity can can see things that they
didn't see before.
>> Mhm.
>> There's also something called novelty
salience which is noticing new things.
um or just noticing things of importance
that you would otherwise have filtered
out. And there's something called um
attenuated latent inhibition or low
latent inhibition which is to do with
that filter. And it means that the
filter allows more things in than it
normally does.
>> So you can see we've got
hyperconnection, we've got noticing more
things, and we've got the filter like
loosening and allowing more things in.
Now, if you've got a high IQ, high
working memory, and you've got cognitive
flexibility, which is you can think, you
know, out of the box, that's a really
good thing. If you've got a low IQ,
you've got deficits in your working
memory, and you've got what's called
peververation, which is you just go over
the same thought pro process over and
over again, that can lead to you having
a psychological crisis. So I took that
model and thought if grief is like
psychosis and I'm currently in a very
vulnerable state, is creativity a
conduit for me to get not only back to
the state that I was in before, but into
a state of expanded awareness where I
can loosen the filter as I choose as I
choose fit. I can notice things that I
would have passed by before and I can
think differently about how my mind
works, how the world works, possibly
what happens after someone passes away.
And then I went and, you know, looked
into near-death experiences and terminal
lucidity and dark retreats. Like I said,
I went down a rabbit hole.
>> And what did you find in that rabbit
hole? at the border of life and death.
Usually within 1 to 24 hours of death,
someone who has
whose brain hasn't been functioning, who
can't remember the names of their own
children, suddenly becomes completely
lucid and says, "Steven darling, come
over here. Let me, you know, let's have
a nice like mother son chat." And then
that gives a lot of people hope, but
usually that means it's an hour or 23
hours till the person's going to die. We
can't explain that. How can a brain
that's irreversibly damaged suddenly
function completely normally? There is
no explanation for that. With the
near-death experiences,
I was particularly compelled by three
stories.
Dr. Mary Neil, an orthopedic surgeon,
she's in that Netflix documentary,
Surviving Death. She was submerged
underwater for 15 or 20 minutes. She
should never have been able to be
resuscitated.
She describes her whole journey of going
to another realm, seeing, you know, a
being of light, being told that her life
isn't over. She has to turn back and
return to the physical world, even
though she could see her bloated body
and her friends trying to reach her to
resuscitate her and they couldn't. Dr.
Eban Alexander, who wrote Proof of
Heaven, he is a doctor. He was an
atheist. He was in a coma with bacterial
menitis and was pronounced clinically
dead and then basically came back and
said that he saw heaven and he now
believes in a god that is benign that
cares about the future of humanity. So
for me as a doctor hearing these stories
from other doctors was really really
convincing.
And then there's one story that um Dr.
Bruce Grayson told me he's a professor
of psychiatry at University of Virginia
who has done 50 years of research into
near-death experiences.
And he told me the story of a patient in
ICU
who kept going into cardiac arrest and
he had a primary nurse who was a young
um 20-year-old nurse and they had a
really close bond. And one weekend she
was she had time off for the weekend and
he had a different nurse looking after
him and he went into cardiac arrest and
he had a near-death experience. And in
that near-death experience, he saw his
primary nurse. She said to him, "Your
life isn't over. You have to go back and
get better. And please tell my parents
I'm sorry about the red MG."
So he wakes up in ICU. He's got this
replacement nurse looking after him. and
he says, "The strangest thing just
happened. I um
had this experience of being in this
other world. I saw um my primary nurse
and she said I had to come back and she
also said, "Tell my parents sorry about
the red MG." So the temporary nurse
starts bursting into tears, runs out of
the room. He has no idea why. Someone
comes in and says, "What's just
happened?" he explains. And they tell
him that his primary nurse was given a
red MG for her 21st birthday, took it
out for a test run, crashed it into a
tree, and died.
Now, he didn't know she was dead, but he
saw her on the other side, and she told
him to come back.
>> And the guy that told you the story was
who relevant to the patient. Who said
that?
>> Dr. Bruce Grayson. He um has done 50
years of research on near-death
experiences. He's got over 5,000
recorded cases of patients of his own
that he's looked after that have had
near-death experiences. And he also
shared with me with me the numbers of of
uh cases that other people have on
databases. So, you know, we're looking
at over 10,000 cases globally recorded
at the moment.
What is it that you believe based on
those near-death experiences like the
red MG story
>> and based on this phenomenon of terminal
lucidity?
So, Professor Alexander Bathani, who
wrote threshold about terminal lucidity,
put it really nicely when he said,
"Maybe at the border of life and death,
we see something that is true all along,
but we don't, for whatever reason, see
it or acknowledge it whilst we're alive
and well, which is that the mind and
body can operate independently of each
other.
>> It is quite it is quite shocking. is
this case from 2009,
an 82-year-old woman with Alzheimer's
disease who was non-verbal and
non-responsive and had no apparent
recognition of her surroundings or
families for years. And then one day
before her death, she suddenly sat up in
hospital, looked around and recognized
her daughter by name, spoke clearly,
reminisced about the past, thanked her
family for caring for her. Her speech
was coherent, her memory was intact, and
her personality recognizable, as though
she had never been ill. She fell asleep
that evening and died peacefully during
the night.
>> And what do you think's happening there?
What do you think's happening there?
>> It's possibly, you know, partially
explained by a a surge in
neurochemicals, but it's not explained
by how can those neurochemicals act if
the physical neurons and sinapses are
damaged. There there is no explanation.
The only explanation is that the mind is
not emergent from material matter. It's
not that the mind, the thoughts, the
emotions, the psyche cannot be solely
emerging from physical matter. That's
the only explanation from what we
understand so far.
>> And so what is it that you now believe?
You believe that our souls and our
bodies are two separate things.
>> And where does our soul live if it's not
living inside of me?
>> So like where is Robin? M so I believe
that you know whether whether you want
to call it the universe
consciousness um collective
consciousness godhead cosmic soup I
don't the word for it isn't important
there's there's somewhere that that
energy goes and it still exists in some
form and if you believe in reincarnation
then you may believe that it then enters
another body as a vessel and you know
has a different life um
But
it doesn't go away.
>> How do you know?
>> I'm going to say something that you I
know you're not going to like, but I
know because I feel it personally. I
feel it from I feel it like with the
person I've been closest to in my entire
life
who I know would never leave me if they
didn't absolutely have to. But I can
back that up to the extent of I can I
can say you can't prove that this isn't
true. I can back that up with everything
that I put in the book. And I'm not the
only one. Dr. David Eagleman at Stanford
says, you know, this idea of the brain
being like a radio and receiving signals
from outside. We can't prove it, but we
categorically cannot say it's not true.
Professor Donald Hoffman suggests that
spaceime is not the basis of how the
universe works. suggests that
consciousness is the basis of how the
universe works. We can't prove that's
not true. And I find that really
exciting. I mean, as a scientist, you're
supposed to challenge the status quo.
You're supposed to be curious. You
can't, as a scientist, believe that
everything we know now is all there is.
There's no point to being a scientist if
that's what you believe.
>> I asked you this question about the gym
earlier on about is it kind of like
training in the gym. Are there things
you think people could do to heighten
their ability to speak to loved ones
that might have passed or to heighten
their ability to tap into signs?
>> So I go through this in the book and and
I chose the order quite carefully. So I
talk about neuroesthetics which is you
noticing beauty basically if not like
actually engaging in the arts. There's a
lot of evidence for engaging in the arts
in terms of like um increasing your
novelty salience which is noticing new
things which is part of the journey of
opening up that filter.
>> Um and then there's a whole chapter on
nature because I think a lot of signs
come from nature like butterflies,
robins, um sort of you know spiral
formations,
cloud formations. So noticing nature
more can help you you know also to
receive these signs. And then community
is a huge part of it because you know if
I had this conversation with you and you
totally shut me down and said it's not
provable. This is ridiculous I'm not
airing this episode. That would have a
very different like effect on me
>> to you even being open to like asking me
challenging questions that I welcome but
also
engaging in this conversation and sort
of you know may feels a little bit like
maybe questioning you know some things
that you might do differently. Um, so
those are three very important parts of
like sort of part two of the book. Part
one is more about what are signs, what
are you missing, you know, have you been
receiving signs already.
>> One of the things that I when I was
going through my sort of um transition
from like being religious to being
agnostic, I'd say cuz I wouldn't call
myself an atheist is I was watching all
these um atheist minds debate and talk
and stuff and one of the things one of
them said is that if coincidence didn't
happen in our lives then that would be a
miracle. like statistically,
mathematically, if at sometimes you
don't think of Dave and then the phone
rings and it's Dave, that would actually
be more mathematically improbable
>> than it happening sometimes.
>> Mhm.
>> If you think about, you know, the if you
had this on a like a distribution cup or
something,
>> it is likely mathematically that really
unlikely things will happen sometimes.
>> Okay.
>> Right. So, I I've always had that in my
head as a way to sort of rationalize
coincidence. So when coincidence happens
I think well probabilistically
really unlikely things have to happen
and if they never happen then that's a
miracle.
>> Okay.
>> Does that make sense?
>> Yeah it makes sense.
>> Like mathematically you would say like
>> likely things happen often unlikely
things happen less often. Extremely
unlikely things happen way less often.
>> Yeah.
>> That's like the nature of like maths,
right? So when extremely unlikely things
happen, I say actually that makes sense
because probabistically those things
happen infrequently. They're not
happening every single day. Like right
now I'm thinking of I can name 10
people. I guarantee when I go to my
phone none of those 10 people have text
me. But if I do that every day one day
I'm going to say, "Hey Steve, checking
in." Which makes sense because of the
the laws of
>> But I don't want you to do that. I want
you to just like be open to naturally
thinking of someone and seeing if that
does happen or you know kind of or
asking for a sign and seeing if it comes
into your life. That that's that's all
I'm asking like what you know just try
it. It's not going to hurt you. And I'm
not just saying that to you. I'm saying
it to everyone.
>> And how do you think that would benefit
me?
>> I think it makes you believe in
something bigger than yourself.
>> Yeah. Um,
>> and why is that so important?
>> Because I think a life where all you're
trying to do is get through and meet
your needs is
life can be better than that. Um, I
think a life where you feel more
connected to yourself, to others, to
something greater gives you purpose. Um,
there's a lot of research that shows
that having a purpose that transcends
just yourself is actually really healthy
and important.
>> And what is that for you now? that
transcendent layer in your life. How do
you define it? Is it a religion? Is it
something else?
>> It's definitely not religion. Um
I guess it's spirituality and you know a
form which will mean different things to
different people. It's definitely about
caring for humanity.
>> Is it a god, a creator?
>> For me, no. Um but 85% of people
globally believe in religion under God.
So it's important. Um, I think for me
it's
about
giving like a voice of relevance and
helping people to feel seen and heard
cuz I think that's very lacking and you
know I'm in the enormously privileged
position that you have given me of being
able to do that and I want to use that
in a really like positive way.
>> How does this overlap with or sit
alongside what people call intuition
>> because you talk about that as well in
the book.
>> Yeah. Um, I know there's so much like
there's still like so much else I want
to say.
>> Just keep going.
>> So, intuition is I mean intuition is
what it is. It's accessing inner wisdom,
right? But I've I've included it as a
really important part of the book
because I believe that it's a way to
receive and interpret your signs.
But um I just want to go back to
something I said earlier which is about
how trauma can be stored in your body
and you know to some extent it can't be
retrieved through talking therapy
because there aren't words for it
because it's actually embedded into the
tissues of your body. There's a really
exciting new hypothesis for how that
might work called the serotonin
hypothesis. So, previously
I think it would make sense that if you
know, for example, when when Robin was
in hospital,
I would like sit in a very hunched over
position and my fists would be clenched
cuz I felt like I was fighting for his
life all the time. And if I relaxed for
a millisecond, he could die. Um, so it
makes sense to me that that those
postural issues would show up for me
later. and you know in terms of like a
aches and pains and you know perhaps
sort of well not perhaps my as my
Pilates and yoga teachers keep telling
me like issues with you know certain
parts of my spine and stuff but um the
serotonin hypothesis is very exciting as
a neuroscientist because a lot of people
have heard of Bessel Vanderolk's work
and the book the body keeps the score
and it makes sense kind of intuitively
that the body does keep the score and
and like I've said there's an amount of
trauma that you can't express you can't
articulate verbally. So we believe we
understand that there are imprints of
that in the body.
>> Mhm.
>> But we have we've never really
understood how that works. Um and we you
know I've talked before I think with you
about intuition
through a process called hebian learning
which is neurons that fire together wire
together gets pushed deeper and deeper
into neurons from the outer cortex the
lyic system the brain stem into gut
neurons and that's why intuition is
called gut instinct and we understand
that through stress postures you could
have bracing patterns in your muscles
for like the trauma that you've
experienced
Fascia is the connective tissue that
holds your entire body together, all
your organs, all your muscles. And until
fairly recently, fascia was thought of
as a vestigial organ. It was cut away in
surgery without thinking of any that it
would have any effect on the rest of
your body. Now, it's understood more to
actually be an an organ of its own and
an important one. And the serotonin
hypothesis
goes some way to explain how the level
of constriction of capillaries and the
amount of nutrients that's released to
skin, fascia, and muscle is a mechanism
for how trauma is held in the body.
>> And with that in mind, what do we do to
get rid of that trauma held in the body?
>> Physical activities. Um so dancing,
singing, drumming, humming, chanting,
massage, yoga, craniosacral therapy. And
you'll notice that the ones I started
with are, you know, very related to
ancient wisdom. So our ancestors knew
this. Um for example, in ancient Greek
um uh ancient Greek burials, they would
whail and beat their chests. So they
were getting rid of grief by like
screaming but also by beating their
muscles and letting like trauma exit
their body.
>> I'm very well aware that
there's probably a lot of people who
have sent this conversation to a friend
who is struggling right now
>> and that that friend who has lost a
loved one, potentially a husband,
potentially a wife, potentially, you
know, god forbid a child or a
grandparent or something is listening to
this because they are in search of
answers for their own healing. Mhm.
>> You've been there.
>> Mhm.
>> You may still be there in some degree.
>> If you were to advise them on
their own healing journey, what advice
would you give them?
>> The first thing would be to not repress
or deny how they're feeling and, you
know, really
feel the emotions that that have to come
along with grief. Um,
I've, you know, I had amazing talking
therapy which definitely helped me a
lot. So, if people have access to that,
um, professionally, then great. If not,
then, you know, if you've got close
friends that you can talk to, then
talking it out does help. But, I've
really learned that there's a limit to
how much that helps and that some sort
of physical therapy um is really helpful
as part of it. Those would be the
basics. I would say
time in nature has been so healing for
me. Um some form of creative outlet
whether it's making or beholding. So you
don't have to be good at art. If if you
draw, you know, a picture of how you're
feeling emotionally or a sketch of your
loved one, it doesn't have to be good.
You get benefits from doing that. It's
an out creative outlet for your grief.
That's probably the second level. And
you know, the third level to me is if
you've got any inclination to receive
signs um or just be open to, you know, a
white feather landing at your doorstep
um or a bird coming to visit you or
something that means something to you,
then that can bring a lot of comfort and
guidance and joy.
>> And you also assert that things like
being in nature, creativity, honing into
our intuition increase the probability
of us receiving these signs.
>> Mhm.
Well, receiving and being able to
interpret in a way that's meaningful for
you.
>> Gut instinct.
Um, in the book you talk about how
strengthening one's gut health can have
an impact on gut instinct.
>> Explain that to me.
So the the body is basically the
physical foundation for um you know all
of your senses to be able to to flourish
to your higher mental faculties to be
able to flourish and ultimately for you
know whatever spiritual experience you
have of life to to be able to be at its
fullest and best as well. So taking care
of the physical foundations is really
important and um you know we could talk
about all the usual things like sleep
and diet and exercise, mindfulness,
stress management, but I want to really
focus strongly on the the gut brain axis
because a lot of new research has come
up since I wrote the source.
So it's actually, you know, we know a
lot about this birectional communication
between the brain and the gut. is
actually a three-way system which is the
brain, the gut itself, the gut neurons
and the gut microbiome which is
trillions of bacteria and fungi and you
know organisms that um are basically
determining the health of our entire
system because they're connected to our
immune system to our skin to our oral
microbiome and and the brain. So the way
that you the the most direct access you
have to your brain is through your gut.
The gut is the most direct way that you
can influence your brain and you can do
that through exercise obviously diet um
supplementation
even like um meditation and art and
music therapy have a beneficial effect
on your gut microbiome as well which has
a knock-on effect on the neurons and the
the brain and they communicate with each
other many ways mostly through the vagus
nerve.
>> What's the vagus nerve?
>> The vagus nerve is a cranial nerve. So
it comes from your skull. It's Latin for
wandering because it's the longest nerve
that goes through your body. So it goes
there's two, the right and the left. And
they go all the way from your cranium.
>> What's my cranium?
>> Your cranium is the bone around your
brain.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so inside that um down your neck they
go through your diaphragm and to your
intestine.
>> I'll put a photo up on screen for
everybody wants to see where their vagus
nerve is.
>> Also other nerves. So the nerves that
innovate the gut organs um they're
called aphrant intestinal nerves.
They're also involved in this
communication. Then there's hormones and
there's cytoine um messages which are
chemical messages that aren't hormonal.
Your immune system actually also
produces neurotransmitters and there are
immune cells in your brain as well. So
those are all the ways that we know
currently that the brain and the gut
communicate with each other. And so what
does this mean in terms of my gut health
and ways to influence my my brain? Does
it mean that I I need to be really big
on my prebiotics and my probiotics to
make sure my my guts intact? And if I do
that, then my intuition will be sharper.
>> Mhm. So that's true, but I always like
people to understand what's behind that,
not just mindlessly take prebiotics and
probiotics. So what we're trying to do
is reduce inflammation throughout the
system. And so basically because
the brain is a small organ in in our
entire system but it uses up at least
20% of our energy. So it's very
vulnerable to um
what what we call oxidative stress or
free radicals. So every time like
there's any turnover of cells in our
brain or our body basically as we live
the wear and tear of daily life we
release free radicals which are
molecules that can damage cells
particularly nerve cells and because the
brain is has such high turnover of
energy it's particularly vulnerable to
free radical attack. So reducing
inflammation and putting things that are
neuroprotective around it like certain
vitamins and minerals is really
important. And the hippocampus part of
the brain which um it has high cell
turnover because it's to do with memory
laying down memories and obviously well
into adulthood we're still doing that.
That's also very vulnerable to free
radical damage and that's why we can get
memory and cognitive impairments and
dementias as we get older. So the the
modern western diet causes something
called disbiosis which is that your gut
isn't in a good state and that creates a
cascade of inflammation and releases
molecules some of which can cross the
bloodb brain barrier and therefore cause
inflammation in the brain. So we want to
minimize that as much as possible
and put in as many protective and
beneficial factors as possible. If we're
doing that, the system's in what we call
homeostasis, which is good balance. It's
kind of starting to take care of itself.
It's got all the nutrients that it
needs. It's hydrated. It's oxygenated.
That's when you've got extra resources
to do the higher mental functions. And
up until today, pretty much I've
described those as being able to solve
complex problems, being able to think
flexibly, creatively, override your
biases.
But now I'm proposing that there's more
than that that we can do. There's
accessing levels of intuition that we
didn't know we had. very much through
through the same mechanism of how I
described trauma being stored in the
body. Hidden wisdom is also stored in
the body. It's not just in your brain.
And therefore the same therapies like
beholding and making art, humming,
drumming, storytelling, dancing, yoga,
just movement can help us to access that
intuition that isn't just in our brain
and our mind and take us to a next level
of intuition that's not just cerebral,
it's it's physical.
I've just invested millions into this
and become a co-owner of the company.
It's a company called Ketone IQ. And the
story is quite interesting. I started
talking about ketosis on this podcast
and the fact that I'm very low carb,
very, very low sugar, and my body
produces ketones, which have made me
incredibly focused, have improved my
endurance, have improved my mood, and
have made me more capable at doing what
I do here. And because I was talking
about it on the podcast, a couple of
weeks later, these showed up on my desk
in my HQ in London. these little shots.
And oh my god, the impact this had on my
ability to articulate myself, on my
focus, on my workouts, on my mood, on
stopping me crashing throughout the day
was so profound that I reached out to
the founders of the company, and now I'm
a co-owner of this business. I highly,
highly recommend you look into this. I
highly recommend you look at the science
behind the product. If you want to try
it for yourself, visit
ketone.com/stephven
for 30% off your subscription order. And
you'll also get a free gift with your
second shipment. That's
ketone.com/stephven.
And I'm so honored that once again, a
company I own can sponsor my podcast.
Use the word dark retreats. I've never
heard that phrase before.
>> So dark retreats come from um a Tibetan
religion or philosophy, but it's um it's
seen throughout the ancient
civilization. So the ancient Greeks and
Romans used to bury people actually for
days and then they would come out and be
like the seers and the mystics of that
um community.
But there's most research um available
in dark retreats cuz it's still
happening today.
>> What is a dark retreat?
>> A dark retreat is um have you heard of
silent retreat? Silent meditation.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. My girlfriend went on one.
>> Yeah. So that's the kind of thing she
would do. So basically you can go away
for a few days to a few weeks and you're
just in silence and you're meditating
and doing breath work most of the time.
In a dark retreat you are in like pitch
black for I mean you can go and do it
for a few hours or a weekend but it's
meant to be in sevens. So 7 to 49 days.
The monks do 49 days. If as a you know a
person who's interested spiritually you
wanted to do it quite seriously you
would go for 7 days and you would be in
a room or a cave that's got double walls
so it's completely dark and um
the reason for doing this is that not
all of us can have a near-death
experience right so this is a way of
emulate it's the closest way of
emulating that for anyone like you or I
to get access to the benefits of a
near-death experience
um which I've outlined them all in the
book. So in a dark retreat at first you
sleep a lot because it's dark. You're
releasing a lot lot of melatonin from
your pineal gland. So you fall asleep in
darkness. You awake in darkness and
basically that kind of makes you feel
more sleepy. So you sleep a lot. After a
couple of days,
you start to see
like pulsations of light. It might be
like little shooting stars or kind of
just like little sparks here and there.
And then eventually it feels like the
walls
are dimly alike.
So in complete darkness you start to see
light.
Obviously there's an element of like
hallucinating at this point. And so
after three, four, five days, you will
actually start to see animals real or
sort of fantastical. And eventually
people see like deities or beings like
people do in near-death experiences.
Um, and when people come out of these
retreats, they experience many of the
same benefits like, you know, a real
sort of
like joy for life, less fear of death,
more compassion for other people, less
fear of failing, so you know, taking
more healthy risks. So, it it's a way
basically of em emulating a near-death
experience.
>> And it therefore convinces you that
there's more than you can see in your
day-to-day life. And
therefore that expands your mind in a
way that's beneficial.
>> Yeah, it's another uh example of an
altered state of consciousness. You can
also get altered states of consciousness
through conscious connected or
holotropic breath work and through the
use of psychedelic um plants as well.
How do we know that it's it's not just a
changing of our neurological state or
the the chemicals in our brain that are
causing us to interpret things
differently with our senses? Because,
you know, we've all I said we all many
of us have experienced having some kind
of stimulant or psychedelic or some
compound in a rave or at a festival
that's made us see the world differently
for a moment. And science would say
that's just the neurochemicals in our
brain
>> doing different things which are
changing our perception. They wouldn't
say necessarily that it's a different
realm or a different dimension.
>> Yeah. And I I think you're right. I
think it is that. So as a
neuropharmacologist I you know
understand as much as the research says
about the it's mo mostly like I said in
in the body in the brain with
psychedelics it's mostly 5HT or
serotonin 2a receptors and there's a
level of hyperconivity within the brain
particularly as I said in the visual
cortex here which allows people to see
things that they don't normally see. M
>> um and I think the way to
apply that in your life is that it's a
glimpse into what's possible.
>> Mhm.
>> Um once you've experienced that, it
could either be that you find other
natural ways of experiencing that. So
there's there's a paper I can forward to
you that shows that certain forms of
conscious connected breath work produce
the same effect as a moderate dose of
psilocybin,
>> which is magic mushrooms.
>> Yes. And this um research came out after
psilocybin was banned and practitioners
thought well what are other ways that we
can help people to achieve these altered
states of consciousness. Um and
personally I believe that you know
having like a completely like all
inspiring experience in nature or for me
like the ballet particularly when I've
been so lucky sometimes to sit in the
wings and you just completely feel like
you're part of it. I mean, I've
literally had a spiritual experience
sitting in the wings watching actually
was one of my friends, the principal
dancer, dancing just so overwhelming.
It's completely an altered state of
consciousness. Um, so there are there
are other ways of accessing that. Um,
but I think it depends like why you want
to and what it means to you, but at
minimum, these sorts of things that I'm
talking about are ways of understanding
that there's more to life than what we
know.
And how does that meaningfully change
like the concept of what happiness is
and contentment is and like living a
good life is?
>> So what I think is really interesting is
that we don't actually have to
experience certain things ourselves. So,
there's a lot of research that shows
that students from various different um
areas of expertise who simply learn
about near-death experiences actually
get some of the same benefits and that
these can last for over a year later. So
understanding that when someone sees
that there's something greater than us,
when someone sees the interconnectedness
of of everything, when someone
understands how small some of their
problems are and the greater, you know,
picture of things, helps people to be
more compassionate, more grateful,
kinder to others, um less materialistic
is is really interesting. And I think
anything that we can do to help us, you
know, free us from some of those chains
that I think hold us down in the
material world, particularly in the
western world, is it's healthy for us
physically,
mentally, emotionally,
but it also brings in this element of
spirituality that I think is just so
lacking in the world at the moment and
and could be so helpful because if we
look back at the way that our ancestors
used their senses and their intuition to
interpret the land. Like a cloud
formation could mean that rain's coming,
but it could also mean that your
ancestors were talking to you. Just
seems like such a beautiful way to live.
And
when we lived in, you know, in
Paleolithic times, we didn't have spare
resources for having fun, but we adorned
ourselves. We danced. We told stories.
We made, you know, cave art. So I think
that just really
reminds us that those things that are
often seen as luxuries or frivolous,
they're not at all. They're
fundamentally important.
>> Believing in these things itself is good
for us. Is that what you believe? You
believe that believing in something
transcendent, whether it's spiritual or
religious, is actually just good for us.
So that's reason enough to believe it.
>> It's reason enough to believe it, but I
think it will naturally change what you
do once you believe it. You're not going
to live in the same way if you if you
know believe some fundamentally
different things
>> and the ways in which it changes what
you believe are beneficial to you. So
are you saying that that is reason
enough to believe it? Like to want to
believe it?
>> I think it's reason enough to try it.
>> Yeah. I mean sometimes it causes people
through human history to do awful
things, right? To kill themselves, to to
strap bombs to themselves and do
horrific things because they believe in
something transcendent.
it it can also lead to like destructive
behavior.
>> I mean, I don't think there's any
evidence from near-death experiences
that that's the case. I think I know
what that what you're referring to is
something that's, you know, more
fundamentally like religious. And
>> cuz I was watching that I've been
watching Jack told me to watch this
Capture Bin Laden documentary. I was
watching it last night and these people
flew themselves into buildings because
they believe in, you know, they were
obviously radicalized in various ways,
but they they believed in going to a
afterlife that would be better than this
one and that they were sacrificing
themselves
>> for the greater good. So, it's just it's
I guess it's a side point that just the
belief in transcendence itself in some
regard isn't necessarily always going to
guarantee our behaviors on on this
planet are productive. Yeah. And I was
going to say like perhaps it's something
more dogmatic, but I think you're
absolutely right to raise that point.
And I'm not trying to sit here and say I
found like the perfect solution and
everyone should do this and it's all
good. Like that's just I know that's not
true. I'm not trying to say that at all.
I think we should absolutely be
questioning everything that that I'm
saying and I will keep questioning the
way that I'm living my life and keep
trying to learn and grow.
>> I guess the point is just the belief in
something transcendent. Does that make
our lives necessarily better? I guess
the answer is I can. It can.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm really obsessed at the moment
actually with this idea of purpose and
meaning because obviously we're living
in a society that's more and more
individualistic and
>> independence is kind of vogue and
um because of a variety of things that
have happened over the last 50 60 70
years. We have more independence. Women
in particular have a lot more
independence which I think everyone is
very most people are very um supportive
of.
>> We have more choice than ever before and
with choice comes independence. I can
choose now when I have a family and
maybe I couldn't choose before.
>> Um, and with choice and with freedom,
I think some of our more short-term
hedonistic desires and temptations take
hold and we end up sacrificing the tribe
and shared responsibility and dependence
and a lot of our meaning came from like
those things. So I I feel to some degree
that when we think about how we lad up
from like me to like my family to my
city to my nation and then maybe to my
God,
>> those layers have fallen away and now
for many of us it's just me
>> and that's causing a crisis of meaning
and purpose in in life because we're
kind of unanchored.
>> Yeah.
>> What's your perspective on this? And um
do you think it's true that we're like
we're more unanchored than we've ever
been? And how do you think we get back
to that? If we can relate to feeling a
little bit lost and anchored and the
sort of prevalence in my view of people
having more and more midlife crisis and
turning to religion or spirituality or
something.
>> Yeah. Well, I I actually called this in
March 2020 and it's on record because I
was on a podcast and I I said I foresee
a huge mental health crisis, but we
could choose for it to be a spiritual
revolution.
And so then obviously the you know the
rest of the pandemic happened and then
there was sort of a return to society
which I think people found really hard
mentally as well and at the same time
there was the cost of living crisis, the
wealth gap, a new war, the crime rates
you know certainly in London like just
for my life experience they had you know
significantly grown um for reasons that
we're all contributors too but you know
it changes how safe you feel in society.
And I'm a big fan of technology.
Obviously, I'm a scientist, but it is
ironic that we seem to be more
disconnected than ever when in in one
way we're we're more connected than
we've ever been before.
>> Mhm.
>> And
I, you know, I I've said this before,
but I'll say it again. I think the way
out of that is is a return to ancient
wisdom to true connection, which I
believe can coexist with being
technologically connected and advanced.
Um,
but yeah, I just I just think we've lost
what it means to be human, which means,
you know, really being in touch with
yourself and being part of a community
and and caring about something more than
just your own life and and your
immediate, you know, inner circle. And
what is true connection in your
definition of the word?
>> Because I guess there's false connection
if there's true connection.
>> So what is true connection?
>> Um
>> and what is false connection?
>> Well, I'll just go over, you know, what
I've said before cuz it's about
connection to yourself, to others, and
you know, sort of the world or something
greater. And I, you know, it's about
something that's that's deep and not
transactional. It's about something
that's meaningful. It's about something
that's altruistic.
I think it's about contributing
>> that day when you walked past the
hospital. What did you experience?
>> Um, it triggers me seeing that building
and I just
I you know I had obviously looked on
Google Maps but not really realized I
would walk past it and if I had realized
I would have walked a different way and
I remember just thinking
it's unfair that I had to see this
building. It was unnecessary
unnecessarily a trigger for me. and and
obvious obviously saying to Robin, you
need to send me a sign. But there
there's a reason for that which is, you
know, I mean, I went to that hospital
every day for a month for his first day
and I think about 3 weeks for the second
one. Um,
but he had two admissions to ICU and one
of them I'd been, you know, to visit him
for the day.
He'd been bedridden for quite a few
weeks by then. And I came home. I was
just sort of deescalating and, you know,
sitting on the sofa and getting ready
for the evening. And then suddenly I saw
the emergency line was calling. And I
could hear them saying his heart rate
went up to 200, like ICU, we're here
now. You know, we did a crash call. And
they're just like talking, talking,
talking. And I suddenly just said,
"Should I come back to the hospital?"
and she said yes in a tone of voice that
was like you need to get here as quickly
as possible. Got in the Uber. It's a 30
minute Uber ride from my house and
messaged my best friend and said that
I've got to rush back to the hospital.
He was on the 15th floor. So I was like
waiting for the lift. Got up there, saw
the matron coming to unlock the door.
And I just said, "Is he in his room?"
And she said, "Yes, he's in his But she
her face looked like not good. Ran round
and saw all the machinery from ICU in
the corridor with like a hundred wires
coming out of the room.
Ran into the room and just saw Robin sat
up in bed. Huge smile when he saw me.
And he just said to me, "When I thought
this was the end, I just kept thinking,
please let me see her face one more
time."
And
you know after that he did get a bit
better but then
um well in that first admission
eventually I said to him you know you've
got to start sitting out well the doctor
said you've got to sit out of bed and
the therapist had come around he said I
don't want therapy I've got you. So like
I took the therapy the reflexology lady
came around he pretended he was asleep
and eventually I said darling you've got
to play the game. I cannot do this by
myself and you and you can't just keep
lying in bed. You've got to sit up. So,
he got helped into the chair and that
day when I went to say goodbye to him, I
hugged him like face to face. And I
didn't quite realize that the whole time
I'd been kissing him from the side of
the bed cuz he'd been in bed. And when
we hugged face to face, I just burst
into tears. And I had never shown him
anything but a smiling face the whole
time. and I left and I just got this
barrage of text messages saying, "I'm
not spending one more night away from
you. I'm wasting away in this hospital
when I could be with you. When you come
in tomorrow, we're going to tell the
doctors that I'm leaving."
So, I thought, "Okay." Came in the next
day. It's ward round. And I was pretty
much like part of the ward. Like the
consultant would say everything and then
say, "Is that okay, Tara?" kind of
thing. And he said, "I want to leave.
I'm leaving today. I want to be at home
with my wife tonight. And she was very
clever. She looked at me and said, "What
do you think, Tara?" Because she knew
I'd never put him in danger. But also,
I'm standing in front of the man that I
love,
and I'm either going to tell him that I
don't trust him. I don't trust his
decision-m,
the person who always always had my
back, or I'm going to have to show him
that I have his back just like he always
had mine. And I said to her, I
understand why you wouldn't be in favor
of this, but I think I can manage it.
And within two days, he was discharged
from hospital.
Um,
yeah, off IVs,
um, on still on oxygen. We still had to
go in to have like the bone marrow tests
and get blood transfusions and platelets
and things, but he slowly started to
recover. He it was a slow recovery. So
normally within a week you would get the
second round of treatment. He wasn't
strong enough for that. But um we got to
the point where she actually said that
we could go to Hampshire and then he
stopped using the walking stick. He
stopped using the oxygen. We came back
to London for the second round of
treatment. She said I I could not have
imagined you would bring him back in as
good a state as he's in.
But the second round of treatment was
totally brutal and it didn't work.
Um, so he was in hospital again for a
few weeks and then like I said on
October 4th I took him home.
Even then the female consultant said to
me, "The last time you took him to
Hampshire, he got so much better. If
anything changes, bring him back to
London." And the male consultant gave me
two syringes of bone marrow stimulating
um drugs and said, "You cannot use this
without our permission, but if anything
changes, inject him with this and bring
him back to London." So, I still had
like a glimmer of hope, which I
shouldn't really have had. Um,
and like I said, he he lived for three
and a half weeks instead of two.
Um
yeah, and like right towards the end cuz
he was in a hospital bed on an air
mattress,
he said like maybe you could like come
and lie on the bed with me. And I mean
he couldn't move. He couldn't raise a
glass of water to his lips or anything,
but he somehow like moved his arm cuz I
always used to sleep like on his chest.
Um,
and then after a few seconds he said,
"I'm just really claustrophobic." And
you know, I'd like had to put the rails
up to stay in the bed because it was so
small. I was going to fall out. And I
said, "It's okay, darling." And I think
that I think that was his way of saying
goodbye to me cuz he died 2 days after
that.
>> What's on your mind?
>> Um,
just like very sad.
Um,
I don't want him to get forgotten.
I've dedicated like my book to him.
But I I also know because we've had this
conversation that
there's something
there's something there's there's still
like
something that I have to do in this life
which was the reason that I had to stay.
So
yeah, I I think there's like a purpose
to fulfill that that Robin wants me to.
So that that's what I'm going to do.
>> How do you think about falling in love
again? because I have played out the
horrific thought myself in my own life
of losing my partner and and how
difficult it would it appears to be from
this vantage point to fall in love again
and meet people and to to think about
those things again like how how do you
think about that?
>> Um so I actually
experienced unconditional love which I
didn't believe in. So the first time
Robin said to me, "I love you
unconditionally,"
because I had some baggage from a
previous relationship. I said, "Don't
say that because I don't think that
exists."
And he never said it again,
but every day for the rest of his life,
he showed me that it was true. So at
some point, I just knew it was true. I
would say, you know, obviously people
say things like, "He would want you to
be happy." And you know, I was still
wearing my wedding rings for over two
years. And you know, even some of his
friends said, "You don't need to wear
them anymore." But I said, "I want to."
And I wore them for as you know, as long
as I still needed to. I
I'm open to receiving love, but I'm not
going to go look for it. Let's put it
that way.
>> Why?
Um,
I don't know. I mean, it's not really my
style anyway,
but I think I've been so lucky with what
I've had that I don't I don't
I'd be okay if I didn't like have
something like that again. Obviously,
I'm too young to like not want to have
that again, but I'm I also feel quite
vulnerable. So, I'll just like see how
things go.
I've watched so many entrepreneurs treat
sales like a performance problem. When
it's often down to visibility because
when you can't see what's happening in
your pipeline, what stage each
conversation is at, what's stalled,
what's moving, you can't improve
anything and you can't close the deal.
Our sponsor, Pipe Drive, is the number
one CRM tool for small to medium
businesses. Not just a contact list, but
an actual system that shows your entire
sales process, end to end, everything
that's live, what's lagging, and the
steps you need to take next. All of your
teams can move smarter and faster. Teams
using Pipe Drive are on average closing
three times more deals than those that
aren't. It's the first CRM made by
salespeople for salespeople that over
100,000 companies around the world rely
on, including my team who absolutely
love it. Give Piperive a try today by
visiting piperive.com/ceo.
And you can get up and running in a
couple of minutes with no payment
needed. And if you use this link, you'll
get a 30-day free trial.
One of the things that I thought a lot
about when I started the Diary of CEO
was who would be the sponsors of this
show. I wanted my sponsors to be
companies that I believed in so much
that I invested my own money into those
companies. The reason I do that is
because if I'm willing to put my money
where my mouth is, I must love the
product. And this is one such product
that I've just invested many millions of
pounds into. I was in the late stages of
creating my own hydration electrolyte
product. I was looking for a certain
thing. I was looking for a certain
product that wasn't too sweet, that was
sciencebacked. And I told my friend
George Heaton about this and he said to
me that he was working on one with a guy
called Ross McKay. They put me in a
WhatsApp group. They showed me the
product and I fell in love. They have
the sachets, they have the cans, and the
range of products focus on performance,
recovery, and sleep. Try it now by going
to usecadence.com. to get you started.
Don't tell anybody this, but I'll give
you a code, which is code diary, which
will give you 15% off and an extra 15%
off on subscriptions.
And if I told you I'd been through what
you've been through, and I asked you the
question, should I go and look for love
again? What advice would you give to me
if I'd lost my partner and I was what,
four years now?
>> Mhm.
>> Away from that.
>> Nearly.
>> Yeah. What what advice would you give me
about love?
>> I think it's very personal. I think, you
know, if you want to be in a
relationship, that's absolutely fine.
Um, if you're not sure, that's fine,
too. I think there's different levels of
how long it would take people. I do know
that when you know the majority of
voices were around around me were sort
of saying like it's okay for you to do
that again that one of my friends who's
engaged to someone who was a widowerower
he said to me at the time I'm telling
you right now 2 years is not it's not
long enough and that felt like a relief
um so obviously it's almost another two
years now I you know I think I believe
that if love is meant for meant for me
then it will come to me so I'm I'm not
I'm I'm just calm about it.
>> How are you different? Like what are the
very material or like very obvious ways
that you're a different person on the
other side of this?
>> Um what would your friends say if I said
how is Tara different?
>> Well, I think they would say that I'm a
lot more like fragile and vulnerable cuz
cuz they're like very very protective of
me still. Um,
I know they would I know what they would
say cuz some of them have said it and I
didn't really like to hear this at
first, but they said you're going to be
able to help so many people. You know,
the first time someone said that I was
like, I've been a doctor. I've been a
coach. I, you know, my whole like
personality is about helping people. I
didn't need my husband to suffer
horrifically and die so that I can help
people. But now I do actually feel that
I can and I want to. And what do you
want to help them with? And who do you
want to help? People that are grieving.
>> Not just people that are grieving. I
think, you know, people are are
struggling and suffering in different
ways. And people really really want to
feel seen. And I think that's like an
important
place where I would love to do
something. I think I've got more and
more curious about the idea that I might
be wrong about subjective reality and
how I see things. And so I wondered if
if there's a clearer definition of the
subjective reality that you see like do
you think we are these spirits that
inhabit our and then like why is there
is there reason why
I've come into this body? Is there some
bigger karmic purpose as to why I've I I
live? This ultimate question of like
what is the meaning of life in the world
view that you have like what is the
point?
What is the point? Why did I need to
live?
>> I don't know if I can answer that, but
I'm going to I'm just going to say like
what's coming to my mind,
>> which is
so like you and I might never have met
in our lives, right?
>> Mhm.
And for some reason, we did. And
we had never met before I did the
podcast with you last time,
but people cannot stop talking about
like the level of chemistry as if we'd
known each other our whole lives. And
I've always said I felt like I was
talking to my little brother.
And then that episode goes on to have
like the number of views that it does.
>> Mhm.
>> I don't believe that that's random or a
coincidence. I think and there's a
reason for that. And for me,
in a way, you were the worst person for
me to come and do and tell this story to
for the first time because you were the
most skeptical person of all the podcast
hosts that I can think of that I'm going
to go on.
>> Mhm.
>> So,
there's obviously some importance to
that. I can't explain it. I'm I'm not I
didn't come here with all the answers.
I'm just
lucky enough to be someone with credible
qualifications that's had a, you know,
an experience that most people don't
talk about that I can open up for people
that that's I would say like
all that it is. But I want to add
something else that I'm feeling is
relevant as well, which is because of my
friendship group and the kind of
conversations that we have, I wasn't
allowed by my publisher to include
personal stories from my friends. I had
to source stories from people I had
either never met or only met once or
were friends of friends. So every
personal story that you read in the
signs which has the person's real name
and it is written by them and gifted to
me for this book are people that I don't
know and
they're all saying the same thing. They
see, you know, light disturbances when
they think of their lost loved one or
they get unmistakable signs or robins
visit them. Um
yeah, I haven't made that stuff up. Like
there's something to it. I I don't know
exactly what it is. I I hope I find out
before I die, but maybe I'll only find
out after I die. I don't know.
>> And is there any meaning to all this
stuff? It's kind of going back to the
question I asked second ago because you
said you think we met for a reason.
>> Mhm.
>> And one could hazard any number of
reasons as to why that was. Maybe it was
because you're going to go on to help so
many people and reach so many people
with an important message, whatever. But
I don't know. This is my curiosity
trying to reach a conclusion which is
for what? For why? Like why are humans
here? Why why doesn't my dog Pablo have
or does he have the same capabilities of
seeing signs and communicating with
>> Oh, he's got more capabilities than you
in many respects.
>> I mean, you talk about that in the book,
right? You talk about pets and animals.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, let me talk about that a little
bit. So, dogs and cats can smell certain
diseases and um they can smell imminent
death. So there's something called
hyperosmia which is um in humans it's
the ability to smell more than the
normal range. So there's a very famous
nurse called Joy I think it's Milner who
smelt her husband's Parkinson's disease
years before he was diagnosed and her
ability to smell that disease has caused
a new swab test to be created that takes
chemicals from the skin of people to
predict if they're going to get
Parkinson's disease.
So there are some outliers in humans
that have you know they're called super
smellers for example like we're not all
capable of that but some people are
blind people
rewire the visual cortex of the brain in
the occipital loes here for
echolocation.
Humans aren't built for echolocation.
Bats and dolphins are. But people who
are blind can use up the unused c visual
cortex to um learn how to recognize
how close objects are to them by how
long it takes sound to bounce back from
surfaces.
So basically animals have senses that we
don't have. Some very rare people can
have some of those senses that animals
have that most humans don't. We're also
capable of rewiring some of our um
neurons for senses that replace ones
that we don't have. And I'm just going
to bring us full circle, you know, kind
of where we started with can you suspend
your disbelief by understanding that
there are lots of things that we can't
prove at the moment, but you know, we
sort of sciences science is to on the
quest to push boundaries, which is that
Russell Foster suggested that not that
the only cells on our retinas are not
just rods and cones, which are for
vision, but there's a different type of
cell that senses the passing of time
through the light dark cycle and you
know that's how we create our circadian
rhythms. He was ridiculed by scientists
who said we've been studying the eye for
150 years and you think there's a new
type of cell that we've missed out in
all that time and you found it. And sure
enough, now there are identified cells
called melanopsin cells which blind um
rodents
can still keep to the circadian rhythm
because they can sense the changing
light and dark cycle. But if you put
opaque contact lenses on them, they
drift off the circadian rhythm.
So,
I I'm not going to be able to give you
an answer at the end of this podcast,
but maybe that's the beauty of
everything that we're not at the end of
knowing everything that we need to know,
but there's a lot of really interesting
big question marks.
>> Do you think we'll ever figure out these
answers? Do you think science will ever
get there? Do you think there'll come a
day when we make discoveries that prove
that many of the things that you write
about in the science
>> are in fact true
like scientifically justifiable
repeatable?
>> Yeah, I think so. But I don't think
we'll be here at that point. I'm always
just fascinated because you know so much
about neuroscience and the connection of
not just neuroscience but spirituality
and um and then also human psychology in
general. The thing I'm also fascinated
about with you is that you're able to
tell me things that I didn't know like
you said to me last time about looking
into someone's left eye and the fact
that sweat leaks through the skin and
that menstrual cycle sync up and these
are all things that are like really
actionable that have helped me to look
at life differently. But also now I
don't think I've looked in someone's
right eye in the last two years,
especially when they're like annoyed or
something. So is there anything else
like that that you've become curious
about or discovered or talked about
since we last saw each other? That might
be pert
>> um I think we've discussed it which is
like noticing beauty. That's been a real
game changer for me. That's like
gratitude to the next level
>> and that's an active practice of going
through life looking for something
beautiful.
>> Well, it was but then it becomes a
habit.
>> Yeah. Okay. Um, and it's producing
oxytocin just like gratitude practice
does. So obviously it's kind of
self-rewarding.
>> So then you naturally want to do it more
and more. But I notice I point it out to
people more as well now, which is that
I'm obviously trying to like create a
bit of a like crowd effect. Um, not
consciously, but I just can't help
myself. Like if I see something really
pretty, then I'll say, "Oh, like you
know, did you see that?" Um,
>> certain people do that often and they do
seem to be the happiest people. My
girlfriend does that all the time. She
she'll like like stop the car because
there's a flower that we need to go
spend 45 seconds looking at across the
other side of the road.
>> And to a lot of people it's just a
flower and we've kind of almost become
used to seeing flowers.
>> Well, that's habituation.
>> Yeah.
>> So even if you walk past like an amazing
tree or an amazing building every day,
eventually you'll you'll just not notice
it cuz you're habituated to it. So
saliency is, you know, keeping yourself
primed like what I call the art of
noticing. Mhm. And where are you right
now in terms of your journey of grief?
I
>> mean much better is the first thing I
need to say cuz obviously it's been a
long and dark time.
>> Um
I know that I know
I'm not there yet because there is a
part of me that is
like afraid to let my light really
shine.
>> Explain that. I think I sort of touched
on it before that if I I feel like if I,
you know, if I like throw myself back
into my career now because I've had
quite a few years out
and it becomes really successful that
there's a level of guilt associated with
that. But,
you know, at least I'm aware of that.
Um, I've had a few conversations with
close friends about it. I have quite a
timeline ahead of me because of book
publication and book promo and then
like, you know, next things that we
might do. Um, so I think I just need to
like keep working on that as things
unfold. Um,
I know it's wrong, but it's how I feel
at the moment.
>> We we meet up again in 10 years time.
Obviously, we're going to see each other
before then, but say we we get together
in 10 years time, and this next season
of your life has been a great success.
What happened?
>> Wow. Um,
I got over myself and like put myself
out there and like really shone and it
actually did really help loads of
people. Um,
>> look at the smile on your face as you
say that.
>> Yeah.
I really want to say thank you to you as
well for everything.
>> The feeling is mutual.
>> You know, it really is. you you were
transformative for for this show and um
everywhere I go still today people come
up to me and tell me about how that
conversation helped them it inspired
them in some way but also helped them
understand as you said earlier in this
conversation that all that we know isn't
all that there is to know
>> and just that you know I've tried to
play a bit of a skeptic throughout this
conversation I am naturally skeptical
but the other thing that's that from
being a podcaster the other thing that
happens to you is you become more
open-minded it's almost this paradox of
you think you're going to learn more.
But actually through the through the
conversations I've had, I've realized
that there's so much that I don't know.
And actually that's forced me more into
an agnostic position than I was before.
And what I mean by that is it's forced
me into a state where I can't fall into
the trap of thinking I know things.
>> Yeah. So this is also why I I find it
hard to commit to any belief like a
religious belief or atheism because
there's I continually sit here over and
over again and someone will say
something to me and I'll be skeptical
and then I'll reflect and then I'll look
at the research or the science or
whatever and I'll change my mind and if
you change your mind that many times you
realize that um your mind should
probably not be fixed to any position.
>> I love that. I'm so proud of you for
hearing that. That's like an incredible
thing for people to hear. But it's true
and I hope that of my audience, you
know, I was sat with my team a while ago
and I was saying, do you know what DOAC
stands for? It stands for diversity. I
get it. But it also stands for people
that have that are dreamers that are
open-minded, which is the O that are in
search of increasing their awareness,
and that could be in any definition that
you want to describe it, whether it's
awareness of health, psychology, who
they are. And the C is about connection.
So that's really like hearing your
stories makes me feel like
>> me too. M
>> I feel that too. I'm struggling in that
way too. So that's the framework that I
think about the show and that's the also
why
>> I try and remain open-minded to all
things that I hear. Um and let people
speak.
>> I've never actually said that before,
but there it is, guys. Um and I and
that's why I'm I'm so compelled by this
conversation today. Of course, like I'm
skeptical. Like I think skepticism is
healthy.
>> Yeah.
>> Um but I'm also open-minded and that
means that I'm willing to take what
you've said to me today and to
investigate it and run the experiments
in my own life.
And if I am open-minded, maybe I'll
receive some evidence for myself.
>> Yeah.
>> So, thank you. Thank you for doing what
you're doing. And also,
>> you know, as you said earlier, it's much
easier and safer in life just to sit in
a box of the known. Like, you're not
going to get any arrows.
>> Yeah. But it's when people through
history have dared to say that maybe the
earth revolves around the sun or that
maybe the earth isn't flat. They've
taken the arrows, but that's pushed us
forward as a society into a better way
of being. So I always applaud the
the the guts to ask questions,
you know. So I hope that's the audience
that I've cultivated. But I hope they're
not too narrow narrow-minded or too
fixed, but I'm sure they will debate and
share their anecdotes in the comment
section. I'm actually really looking to
to I'm really looking forward to reading
the comment section.
>> I know
>> on this particular conversation cuz I
know what it's it's going to be full of
stories and anecdotes and experiences
which I think is going to be really
enriching. But
>> I do ask everybody in the comment
section to be um open-minded and
empathetic and kind
>> um actively which means replying to
people and being kind because you know
grief no matter what your opinion is on
it is um is a very delicate thing and uh
we're all trying to find ways to be more
happier and more connected and uh to
deal with the reality of of our
experience. is we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next
guest not knowing who they're leaving it
for.
>> Okay.
>> And the question left for you
is
what is the best thing that someone has
done for you?
>> Oh god. Are you sure you don't make
these things up?
>> No, it's what it says here. If anyone
wants to read it, it's what it says in
the book.
It It's got to be Robin showing me that
unconditional love really does exist.
>> Tara, thank you. Your new book, The
Science, Beautiful book, by the way.
>> Thank you.
>> Beautiful book, The New Science of How
to Trust Your Instincts, will be out in
September. So, if you're listening to
this in September, then it's out, and
I'll link it below for anyone that wants
to have a read of this book. Um the the
really truly unique thing about you is
that you blend all of these different
perspectives into your your own
perspective and your own writing and
your own research. And so
in reading this book, it pulls everybody
in. It pulls in, I think, the skeptics.
It pulls in the believers and it pulls
them all into the same room to confront
a new possible answer to the nature of
reality that might just serve to help so
many of us. So, I highly recommend
everybody gives it a read because if
you're someone that likes to expand your
mind and think beyond the known, then
this is this is the book and this is the
moment in time because of all the
reasons you've said about loneliness and
individualism and all these things that
people need to read books like this. So,
I highly I'm so excited for it to be in
the world and I'm so excited to hear
what everybody um everybody thinks and
how they receive it. So thank you for
writing such a wonderful book and thank
you for coming back and thank you again
for many years ago now blessing our show
in a profound way that pulled in a huge
new audience which is set us on a on an
incredible journey. So yeah, thank you
Tara.
>> Yes, thank you.
>> This has always blown my mind a little
bit. 53% of you that listen to the show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show. So could I ask you for a favor? If
you like the show and you like what we
do here and you want to support us, the
free simple way that you can do just
that is by hitting the subscribe button.
And my commitment to you is if you do
that, then I'll do everything in my
power, me and my team, to make sure that
this show is better for you every single
week. We'll listen to your feedback.
We'll find the guests that you want me
to speak to and we'll continue to do
what we do. Thank you so much. Make sure
you keep what I'm about to say to
yourself. I'm inviting 10,000 of you to
come even deeper into the diary of a
CEO. Welcome to my inner circle. This is
a brand new private community that I'm
launching to the world. We have so many
incredible things that happen that you
are never shown. We have the briefs that
are on my iPad when I'm recording the
conversation. We have clips we've never
released. We have behind the scenes
conversations with the guest and also
the episodes that we've never ever
released and so much more. In the
circle, you'll have direct access to me.
You can tell us what you want this show
to be, who you want us to interview, and
the types of conversations you would
love us to have. But remember, for now,
we're only inviting the first 10,000
people that join before it closes. So,
if you want to join our private closed
community, head to the link in the
description below or go to
daccircle.com.
I will speak to you there.
[Music]